12

in using bows and arrows of cane, these last con-
structed, 331 have already related, by fixing a piece
of sharpened wood at the larger end. On this ac-
count they are deemed very ferocious by the other
Indians, and are much feared by them; Ithink,
however, these men are precisely like the others.
These are the natives who go to visit the femaleS‚
Who are the sole inhabitantS, of the island of Ma-
tenin, which is the first on the route from Espa-
nola to India. These women exercise none of the
common occupations of their sex, but manage the
bow and dart, as We are told of the ancients
They wear armour made of plates of copper, of
which metal they have great abundance.

1 am assured by the Indians that there is another
island, larger than Espanola, whose inhabitants
are without hair, and who possess a greater quan—
tity of gold than the others. From this island, as
well 33 1116 0111613, 1 have taken some of the in-
habitants to confirm the accounts which 1 give.

Finally, to sum up the whole, and state briessy
the great profits of this voyage, 1 am enabled to
promise the acquisition‚ by 3 trissing assistance
from their MajestieS, of any quantity of gold,
drugs, cotton, and mastick, which last article is

