13

found only in the island of Scio; also any quantity
of aloe, and as many slaves for the service of the
marine as their Majesties may stand in need of.
The same may be said of rhubarb‚ and a great
variety of other things, which, l have no doubt,
will be discovered by those Ι have left at the fort,

as l did not stop long at any single place, unless
obliged to do so by the weather, with the excep-
tion of the city· of Navidad‚ where we made some
stay to build the fort and provide the necessary
securities for the place.

Although the discoveries actually accomplished
appear great and surprising, yet Ι should have ef-
fected much more had Ι been furnished with a
propersseet. NevertheleSS, the great success of this
enterprise is not to be ascribed to my own meritS,
· but to the holy Catholic saith and the piety of
our Sovereigns‚ the Lord often granting to men
what they never imagine themselves capable of
effecting‚ as he is accustomed to hear the prayers
of his servants and those who love his command-
ments, even in that which appears impossible; in
this manner has it happened to me, who have
succeeded in an undertaking never before ac-
complished by man. For although some persons

