3

about and sailed back to a harbour which Ι had
before observed.

At this place Ι sent two men into the country to
see if the king or any cities were to be found.
These returned in three days, having discovered a
great number of towns, but all of them small, and
without any government. ln the meantime Ι had
learned from certain Indians whoml had taken
here that this country was an island. Ι returned
along the coast to the east, a distance of three
hundred and twenty—two miles, which brought
me to the extremity of the island. Here Ι discov-
ered to the East another island, fifty-four miles
from juana. Ι gave it the name of Espanola, and
coasted along the island to the North as at Juana
Ι had proceeded to the East, a distance of five
hundred and sixty-four miles. All these islands

· are very fertile. That of juana abounds in safe

and capacious harbourS, which surpass in excel-
lence all Ι have ever seen elsewhere. lt is
watered by a great number of large and pleasant
rivers, and contains many high mountains.

These islands are of a beautiful appearance, and
present a great diversity of views. They may be
traversed in any part, and are adorned with a

